I'm joined by Yosi Bellin who's a former
Israeli cabinet minister who took part
in negotiations that led to the Oslo
Accords he joins us live from Tel Aviv a
very warm welcome to you so as you
probably heard from our correspondent in
Lebanon there the feeling is at least in
Beirut that this is a somewhat contained
uh conflict in the south of the country
but are we sleepwalking towards
something more full-blown between Israel
and
Hezbollah well I I hope very much that
this will not be the case it doesn't
have to be we understand that hisbah is
doing something which is not
exactly um fitting the the needs of the
people of
Lebanon and the government of Lebanon I
think that there is a gap between his
bala's interests and the civilian
interests of Lebanon and if we can ER
work in order to put an end to to this
EX change of fire and I heard today that
there is an American French
initiative to find a solution for the
current
situation I think that this is the what
both sides need more more than anything
else the to have a a a a gain a war
between us and
Them it may happen I hope very much that
it will not happen there is no need for
that and it is always civilians on both
sides which are becoming refugees which
are killed which are wounded if every
side is of course blaming the other side
and there is no end to it there is of
course irrespective of what may or may
not happen whether or not this may
spiral or not very much the need for a
new security Arrangement uh between
Israel and uh Hezbollah how might that
work behind the scenes as somebody who
was heavily involved in previous
negotiations in the
past well the the UN resolution
1701 ER was very reasonable one and
ended the second Lebanon war but
eventually was not respected by byah now
the question is whether we can renew the
efforts toward something which will
resemble it very much and there is also
another point that Lebanon is is saying
that there are
differences about the border between the
the two states and I think that the
current government of of Israel is is
ready to to talk about the Border too so
if there is a solution for the Border
there is no need for a war I mean who
who who can tell me why should we fight
Lebanon of all places why should they
fight us of all places so you were
suggesting that there are very much um
lessons to be drawn from history from
that
1982 Lebanon
war yeah I mean the the war in Lebanon
in my view um was totally
unneeded I was one of those
who did whatever we could in order to
assure that Israel withdraws from South
Lebanon and that happened on May the
24th
2000 I think that it was a very
important uh decision I don't think that
we should get back to to Lebanon we
don't need it the lebanes don't need it
of course and that we can live in peace
between the two the two
countries I remember that for years
especially when I was a very young men
when people asked who should be who
would be the first Arab countries making
peace with Israel it was almost obvious
that it would be Lebanon and that
regretfully never happened of course the
the worst case scenario at least for
Israel is that if indeed this does
escalate it could be potentially
fighting two conflicts on two fronts
what would that mean for
Israel first of all I I hope very much
that the war in Gaza will end soon um I
I think that we exhausted it and that we
weakened Hamas H we did not catch all
its
leaders you you you never had have
exactly what you plan to have to H to do
but after 8 months and and so many
people who were killed in this war
enough is enough so I I I hope that
there will be no uh two front war and
that there will be no FR no no front at
all because the the war with with
Lebanon is is very artificial because
what happened is that the crazy attack
on the south of Israel on October the
9th was followed by an Israeli attacks
on Gaza on Hamas and Lebanon said yes
because we identify with Hamas we will
attack Israel too and and bombard
Israel but there is no conflict now
between Israel and Lebanon or even not
Israel and and
andala so here I believe that there is
really I mean if we were now begin a war
a war and we have two fronts or one
front I believe that it is totally
totally totally
unneeded uh y b it's been a pleasure to
have you on a here many any
thanks thank you thank you for having
me make sure to subscribe our channel to
get the latest news from aler